1.The London and Ireland Shipping Company PLC (LISC) was founded in 1852 and owns a fleet of cargo ships. 
The company had historically run passenger liners, but recent policy decisions involved the sale of all passenger-carrying vessels. 
The company currently has 14 vessels,including one oil tanker and one tugboat operating out of Liverpool. 
Most of the vessels are registered in Liberia for tax reasons.

Each ship has one or more holds divided into spaces.
 The holds are defined by steel bulk headsand the spaces are defined by shelf racks or other physical dividers. 
 Sister ships, built by the same shipbuilders and to the same designs have similar names, such as Pride of Ireland, Queenof Ireland, Song of Ireland 
and Warrior of Ireland. Sister ships also have identical cargo storage facilities.

 
LISC issues contracts to agents for one or more manifests (lists of cargo items to be shipped).
LISC's charges for cargo carried are based on the number of spaces the cargo requires for storage.
The types of cargo typically carried by LISC include grain, coal and ores (carried only in ships equipped with bulk cargo holds). 
They also transport sacked grain, heavy cases, containers(which may be carried on deck), pallets and so on.

 
Cargo items may take up less than one space in a hold, or one or more spaces, depending on the size of the item. 
A space may therefore contain several small cargo items.

 
The ships owned by LISC are kept as busy and as full as possible, in order to maximise the profits that each vessel makes and minimise running & operating costs. 
LISC's ships ply most of the seasof the world, but tend to operate mainly in the Mediterranean, the North and Mid Atlantic andthe Indian Ocean. 
Different ships require different crew complements.

 
LISC intends to create a computer based information system that will be able to perform the following tasks:
- record the voyages of each ship with the start and end ports.
-record the cargo held by a ship on each voyage
- keep records of their employees and the ships they are assigned to
- producing invoices for agents and customers keep a record of customers' payments on invoices
- analyse the efficiency of use of cargo space and of percentage wasted cargo space for ships voyages